README.md, before:

# Disaster Response Pipeline Project

## Table of Contents

1. [Motivation](#motivation)
2. [File description](#file)
3. [Results](#results)
4. [Instructions](#instructions)
5. [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

## Motivation <a name="motivation"></a>

The aim of the project was divided into 3 sections:
1. creating an ETL-pipeline that takes two CSV files, merges and cleans them, and stores the result in a SQLite database.
2. creating a ML-pipeline that takes the data from the database and processes text and performs a multi-output 
classification. The script uses NLTK, scikit-learn's Pipeline and GridSearchCV.
3. deploying the trained model in a Flask web app where you can input a new message and get classification results in 
different categories.


## File description <a name="file"></a>

The data used for this supervised learning project were a dataset of disaster responding data (disaster_messages.csv) 
and the corresponding category data (disaster_categories.csv). The datasets were provided by [Figure Eight](https://appen.com/).

The following files has been uploaded to the repository:

- app
  - run.py: python script to run the model for the web app.
  - templates
    - master.html: script to construct the web app.
    - go.html: extension for master.html.

- data
  - process_data.py: Python script created with the above preparation to create the pipeline.
  - disaster_message.csv: data input for the message data.
  - disaster_categories.csv: data input for the category data.
  - DisasterResponse.db: database containing the merged, cleaned data produced by the process_data.py script

- models
  - train_classifier.py: Python script to create the machine learning pipeline.
  - (missing, too big) classifier.pkl: Pickle file that contains the model from the train_classifier.py script.

- preparation
  - ETL Pipeline Preparation.ipynb: Jupyter notebook to create the ETL script and get an overview of the data.
  - ML Pipeline Preparation.ipynb: Jupyter notebook to prepare the machine learning pipeline, create the tokenize function.

- README.md


## Results <a name="results"></a>

As already mentioned, the result of this project is a web app that can be used to classify events into different 
categories so it will be possible to forward the message to the appropiate disaster relief agency.

![bild](Screenshot-Disaster-Response.png)
Screenshot of the Disaster Response Pipeline



#### Reflection

I am happy with the result and fully functional web app. Although everything works, there is still enough room for 
improvements:
- Testing different estimators to optimise the classification (RandomForestClassifier() was used in this project).
- Setting an extended list of parameters for GridSearchCV to optimise the model (long performance time problems)
- Using FeatureUnion to extend the pipeline with other transformations for better results. For example on could have 
used different transformations in NLP.
- Also, the web app could have been deployed to Heroku (or similar provider) for easy access to the result.

## Instructions <a name="instructions"></a>

This instruction were originally made by the team at [Udacity's](https://www.udacity.com/).
1. Run the following commands in the project's root directory to set up your database and model.

    - To run ETL pipeline that cleans data and stores in database
        `python data/process_data.py data/disaster_messages.csv data/disaster_categories.csv data/DisasterResponse.db`
    - To run ML pipeline that trains classifier and saves
        `python models/train_classifier.py data/DisasterResponse.db models/classifier.pkl`

2. Run the following command in the app's directory to run your web app.
    `python run.py`

3. Go to http://0.0.0.0:3001/


## Acknowledgments <a name="acknowledgments"></a>

I would like to thank the team from [Udacity's](https://www.udacity.com/) for the great support and the brilliant online 
course [Data Scientist Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/data-scientist-nanodegree--nd025).

Commit message:

Update: Readme, process_data.py, train_classifier.py

README.md, after:

# Disaster Response Pipeline Project

## Table of Contents

1. [Motivation](#motivation)
2. [File description](#file)
3. [Results](#results)
4. [Instructions](#instructions)
5. [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

## Motivation <a name="motivation"></a>

Imagine there is an environmental disaster that affects a part of the world where many people live. Some of them really 
need help in the form of medicine, food, machinery, etc. To attract attention, they are likely to send emergency messages 
in the hope that the message will be read and the right action will be taken. This project provides an engine that 
classifies these disaster messages into different categories to make the process of organising help for those who really 
need it as efficient as possible. 

The aim of the project was divided into 3 sections:
1. creating an ETL-pipeline that takes two CSV files, merges and cleans them, and stores the result in a SQLite database.
2. creating a ML-pipeline that takes the data from the database and processes text and performs a multi-output 
classification. The script uses NLTK, scikit-learn's Pipeline and GridSearchCV.
3. deploying the trained model in a Flask web app where you can input a new message and get classification results in 
different categories.


## File description <a name="file"></a>

The data used for this supervised learning project were a dataset of disaster responding data (disaster_messages.csv) 
and the corresponding category data (disaster_categories.csv). The datasets were provided by [Figure Eight](https://appen.com/).

The following files has been uploaded to the repository:

- app
  - run.py: python script to run the model for the web app.
  - templates
    - master.html: script to construct the web app.
    - go.html: extension for master.html.

- data
  - process_data.py: Python script created with the above preparation to create the pipeline.
  - disaster_message.csv: data input for the message data.
  - disaster_categories.csv: data input for the category data.
  - DisasterResponse.db: database containing the merged, cleaned data produced by the process_data.py script

- models
  - train_classifier.py: Python script to create the machine learning pipeline.
  - (missing, too big) classifier.pkl: Pickle file that contains the model from the train_classifier.py script.

- preparation
  - ETL Pipeline Preparation.ipynb: Jupyter notebook to create the ETL script and get an overview of the data.
  - ML Pipeline Preparation.ipynb: Jupyter notebook to prepare the machine learning pipeline, create the tokenize function.

- README.md


## Results <a name="results"></a>

As already mentioned, the result of this project is a web app that can be used to classify events into different 
categories so it will be possible to forward the message to the appropiate disaster relief agency.

![bild](Screenshot-Disaster-Response.png)
Screenshot of the Disaster Response Pipeline



#### Reflection

I am happy with the result and fully functional web app. Although everything works, there is still enough room for 
improvements:
- Testing different estimators to optimise the classification (RandomForestClassifier() was used in this project).
- Setting an extended list of parameters for GridSearchCV to optimise the model (long performance time problems)
- Using FeatureUnion to extend the pipeline with other transformations for better results. For example on could have 
used different transformations in NLP.
- Also, the web app could have been deployed to Heroku (or similar provider) for easy access to the result.

## Instructions <a name="instructions"></a>

This instruction were originally made by the team at [Udacity's](https://www.udacity.com/).
1. Run the following commands in the project's root directory to set up your database and model.

    - To run ETL pipeline that cleans data and stores in database
        `python data/process_data.py data/disaster_messages.csv data/disaster_categories.csv data/DisasterResponse.db`
    - To run ML pipeline that trains classifier and saves
        `python models/train_classifier.py data/DisasterResponse.db models/classifier.pkl`

2. Run the following command in the app's directory to run your web app.
    `python run.py`

3. Go to http://0.0.0.0:3001/


## Acknowledgments <a name="acknowledgments"></a>

I would like to thank the team from [Udacity's](https://www.udacity.com/) for the great support and the brilliant online 
course [Data Scientist Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/data-scientist-nanodegree--nd025).
